layout: page
title: "Current Work"
permalink: https://isuparnopal.github.io/RF_respiration_monitoring/Currentwork

The research community is currently focused on the use of two different techniques for vital signs detection by means of RF signals: continuous wave (CW) radars and ultra-wideband(UWB) radars. UWB radars transmit short pulses with pulse duration of the order of nanoseconds. These type of radars, as well as CW radars, are able to detect the movement of a target by measuring the low-Doppler variation that affects the received backscattered signal. UWB radars also provide a range resolution that permits to eliminate the interfering pulses due to reflections of other targets in the field of view. CW radars are more simple systems than the UWB radars and the receiver is independent of the target distance [5]. Work has been done by Kaltiokallio et al. to extract breathing with very low error over a single TX/RX link [6]. Similarly, microwave sensors used in the frequency range of 2.42 GHz detect the I and Q components of the backscattered field due to breathing when placed directly above the user’s chest at a distance of 1m.

[7] shows experimentally that standard wireless networks which measure received signal strength (RSS) can also be used to reliably detect human breathing and estimate the respiratory rate. Additonally, techniques that exploit the amplitude modulation of a transmitted RF signal by respiration have also shown to accurately estimate respiratory rate [1]. Work done by [7] shows that beyond link amplitudes and network-wide frequency estimates, there is also information to be gathered in the phase of the sinusoidal signal due to the person’s breathing, in particular for links which have a high amplitude. [8] shows that if the heartbeat and breathing signals are to be monitored, demodulating the phase will then give a signal that is proportional to the chest-wall position that contains information about movement due to heartbeat and respiration.
